---
layout: default
subsections: []
---

h1. Jekyll-base

h2. What is it?

Jekyll-base is a structure to help start maintaining a website with "jekyll":http://wiki.github.com/mojombo/jekyll, possibly hosting it on github.

h2. What is it not?

It is not aiming to help maintain a blog.

h2. Why develop it?

I was looking for a fast and simple way to maintain documentation for "Dedomenon":http://dedomenon.github.com/documentation, the information storage engine behind "MyOwnDB.Com":http://myowndb.com. I was looking for a hosted system I didn't have to maintain, but that would still give me full control of the content so I can move it to another system later if I want to.

h2. Features?
Here are some features:
* cross-browser layout thanks to "YUI Grids":http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/grids/
* "FreshPick":http://www.styleshout.com/templates/preview/FreshPick1-0/index.html based CSS
* use of Yahoo's CDN for delivery of YUI Grids files
* "Google Analytics":http://google.com/analytics activated by putting site id in config file
* "Google Ajax Search":http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/ activated by putting "your API key":http://code.google.com/apis/ajaxsearch/signup.html in the config file
* Listing of documents in current section
* List of subsections
* Breadcrumbs to help in navigation

You can see them in action on the "Dedomenon Documentation website":http://dedomenon.github.com/documentation.

h2. Getting it

bc. git clone git://github.com/raphinou/jekyll-base.git

h2. Configuration

Edit the file _config.yml:

* base_dir: prefix added to all links generated. Usefull if you host your website as Github pages in a repository.
* ga_id: Google Analytics web property id for this website. Setting this settings enables Google Analytics Tracking
* google_search_api_key: your Google Ajax Search API key, needed to activate search on your website ( inpired by "jrmili.com":http://jrmiii.com/2009/03/03/super-easy-sidebar-search-for-jekyll-powered-sites.html )
* google_search_site_url: Website covered by search functionality.
* title_prefix: Prefix for every the title of every page of the website

h2. How to create content?

To add a new section, use the @add_section.sh@ script. It takes two arguments: the path to the parent section and the name of the new section to be created:

bc. bin/add_section.sh . section_name

or to add a subsection to an existing section:

bc. bin/add_section.sh ./parent_section section_name

To add a new post in a section:

bc. bin/add_new_post.sh ./path/to/section title

If you host your website on Github Pages, you might be interested in the base_dir option in _config.yaml: just set it to 

bc. base_dir: /project_name

h2. Contributing

Fork on github and send your pull requests! See "http://github.com/raphinou/jekyll-base":http://github.com/raphinou/jekyll-base
